---
layout: post
author: Gordan Grasarevic
title: Blogging on GitHub
permalink: post/blogging-on-github.html
tags: [blogging, hello]
---

This blog is hosted on GitHub:pages which are powered by "Jekyll"://github.com/mojombo/jekyll, "_a simple, blog aware, static site generator_" created by "mojombo"://github.com/mojombo. It is shockingly easy to set up and get writing. 
Most of my previous attempts to start blogging ended in failure due to the fact that I was never happy with the platform my blog was hosted on. I tried Tumblr, Wordpress etc, but after a while I would just give up. They are all fantastic services, but they were never right for me. I even rolled my own, but the result of that was that I was always fiddling with the code and did very little writing. 
Now, I don't want to prematurely celebrate success in finding the right blogging platform for me, but for the moment I am extremely happy with my current setup. Of course, this is only my first post but I already enjoy it more than I did with any of the previously aforementioned services.

I considered writing a brief guide on setting up a Jekyll powered site, and hosting it on GitHub, but after some deliberation I decided against it as there is already an abundance of resources for that very purpose. So what I'll do instead is provide some useful links on the subject.

h1. Useful links

* ["Getting started with Jekyll (Install)":///github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Install]
* ["Jekyll Bootstrap":///jekyllbootstrap.com]
* ["Textile Reference Manual for RedCloth 4":///redcloth.org/textile/writing-paragraph-text/]
* ["Liquid for Designers":///github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers]
* ["Using Jekyll with GitHub:pages":///help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages]