---
layout: post
author: Gordan Grasarevic
title: A love hate relationship
permalink: post/ubuntu-love-hate-relationship.html
tags: [ubuntu]
comments: 
---

Last Saturday my Crucial SSD drives, which I bought around this time in 2011, finally failed. I say finally because I did some research before buying them and was aware that they have a tendency to fail a lot. Without some prior research, this blog post would probably have had a much angrier tone. As it stands, data loss was kept to a minimum since my 'Documents' folder is my Dropbox folder, and everything else was on external drives. The SSD was mainly used for the operating system. 
So that afternoon I went and bought another SSD. I'd assume they've been working on making them more reliable, but even if this one lasts 1-2 years I'd be happy since an SSD is the single greatest imporovement I've made to make my PC faster. By that I mean that an SSD makes a truly noticeable difference in how fast a PC runs. My two cents anyway, but from what I've read, I'm not the only one to come to that conclusion. Anyway, this post isn't about how awesome SSDs are, go buy one and you'll see it for yourself. No, this post is about my love/hate relationship with Linux, or specifically, Ubuntu.
<br />
Linux has been appealing to me ever since I started programming. It seemed like all the cool stuff was happening over there, and I was starting to get frustrated by the limitations of Windows, and of its subtle suggestions that I should program in Visual Basic or C#. The thing is, those languages never appealed to me, and writing PHP and Python just didn't seem natural on Windows. So I decided to give Linux a try. Now I don't know if you remember when you first ventured into the world of Linux distributions, but it's a scary and confusing place. I tried various different distributions, but I started with Debian.And it was/is great, but I found it quite difficult to get used to and configure for a newbie. In the next couple of months I started switching distributions quite regularly since I wasn't scared anymore. I tried Fedora, SUSE, CentOS but it wasn't long before I found Ubuntu and settled down with it. I think the reason why Ubuntu was the distro I chose was that it had apt-get which I was far more used to because of Debian than yum from Fedora, and it was considerably more newbie friendly than Debian.
<br />
I guess the point of this post is to say how much I hate Ubuntu. It's really annoying when something goes wrong and as it turns out, it's a common problem that is fixed with a reinstall. Or when nautilus takes the better part of a decade to load up properly. But the vast majority of problems I've had with Ubuntu wasn't down to the OS, it was graphic driver support, or java applications doing everything in their power to eat up as much memory as possible, but I'd assume these problems are present in other operating systems too. So yeah, I love Ubuntu. It's a great OS, and it makes programming all that more fun, even with its quirks. Anyway, I think having a real terminal should be a necessity for all programmers. I know there are even better newbie friendly unix based operating systems such as OSX, but they're not for me. I did give them a try and for a while I thought it was the greatest thing since sliced bread, but then Apple changed their direction and I didn't feel comfortable using them anymore.